All right.
So at the end of the previous lesson, we configured our V4 directive to iterate over every menu item
string within our menu items array and to render a list item for each one.
Our goal here, of course, was to remove our duplication and our redundancy of having to copy and paste
a whole bunch of list items that were fundamentally identical, with the one exception being the text
that they displayed.
But luckily, having access to each unique menu item string and menu items as a temporary variable,
we were able to inject or interpolate the value of that menu item directly into our hybrid, and we're
all good to go here, except our app refuses to compile.
So what Vue needs from us is one more thing.
In order to make this a properly valid render for view, view needs something called a key prop.
It's convention to provide it whenever we have a V4 directive, and if I hover my mouse over this,
we'll see that it says elements in iteration expect to have a V bind key directive.
All right.
So the way this works is behind the scenes view is keeping track of all of the elements in our page.
And obviously when we write the out as pure HTML, it's a lot easier for you to keep track of it because
they're all written explicitly in line.
Now we have some HTML that is being dynamically generated.
If our menu items array was 15 items long, well then we'd have 50 list items.
And if our menu items array was three items long, we'd have three list items.
What Vue needs from us is some kind of unique identifier that it can use internally to track each one
of those unique allies, because it becomes harder for it to distinguish all of those dynamic elements
unless we give you a unique identifier for each one.
So the way we fix this is going to look like this right here.
We're going to write up a syntax to talk about it.
We're going to use our V bind directive, which we saw earlier in the course that allows us to bind
some kind of dynamic value to an optimal attribute.
So right here we're going to use V bind.
Then what do we want to bind to?
We specify that with our colon and what we want to bind to is a specific name that we have to provide
here called Key.
All right.
And Key is basically a unique identifier.
You can think of an object key.
It's the same principle.
It's like an object property name or a unique key and a key value pair.
It's some kind of unique identifier that's going to be unique for all of our iterations.
Right?
So I'm going to provide an equal sign and double quotes here.
So one obvious unique thing that is going to persist as we iterate is the actual menu item that we are
iterating over, right?
Each one of these strings is completely unique, so that string can be a perfect, unique identifier
for the given list item that view is going to render on any given V v4 iteration.
Right.
So ideally, what that unique identifier is is something simple like a string or a number or some kind
of simple ID.
You should generally avoid complex objects, like, like JavaScript objects or arrays or custom objects
as unique identifiers.
We're looking for some kind of simple primitive value.
And in this case, the string is a perfect example, and we're going to provide that right here inside
our double quotes.
Well, the cool thing about V bind is it is dynamic.
So when we write our menu item in here, which we have full permission to do because we're going to
have access to to this menu item, temporary variable because we declared it right here, we are able
to use it right here in line to literally interpolate its text on screen.
And we are also able to provide it here as the dynamic key that we're going to assign to each list item.
So just to reiterate here, we're not literally giving the text menu item as our unique key because
in that case, each one of our six list items would each have a menu item.
Rather, this is a dynamic reference to whatever happens to be the string that menu item represents
on a given iteration.
So first step teams, then locations, then life and bubble, etc. And the reason it's dynamic again
is because of the V bind directive.
Remember, V Bind allows us to connect a dynamic value to an HMO attribute.
We saw the syntax right here.
We are binding whatever happens to be the dynamic value of the URL.
To this attribute, we're doing the exact same thing here.
We're binding a dynamic value, but menu item is not coming from our data object directly.
It's coming from this temporary variable that is going to exist on each loop for our menu items array,
which is part of our actual data object.
Right?
So as soon as we declare this V four, we have access to whatever name or word we assign here.
And this could be up to us.
It can be a menu item, it can be item, it can be an element, whatever you want, but whatever name
you give it here in the v v4, you're welcome to use it and we can use it in our template or we can
dynamically inject whatever that value is into this v bind bound.
To this key property.
And what that is going to do is dynamically assign that unique identifier of menu item on each iteration
and clear this problem up.
So I'm going to save this and we're still going to have some excellent errors, but we've solved the
very first problem, which is lacking that key attribute that Vue needs in order to uniquely identify
each list item.
So if I hover my mouse over, we're going to see a couple more issues here and I want to walk through
through them one by one.
The first is one that we saw earlier, which is whenever we use the V bind syntax view prefers that
we get rid of the bind and just use the colon syntax.
We previously did this right here with our V bind to our ref.
So we're going to follow that advice and get rid of this v bind.
Again, this syntax and the V bind syntax are identical.
This is just a smaller shortcut for the exact same operation.
So I'm going to save this and this is not enough.
This last violation that is left gives us refers to the order that view and s Lynn prefer elements be
placed in.
So you can see here the violation says attribute colon key should go before class.
So Vue prefers I'm guessing that this element, this dynamic piece of information go at the very beginning.
So I'm going to drag it over here and put it at the very beginning.
All right.
And then if I hover my mouse over V4, you can see it says attribute before should also go before class.
So I'm going to take this and I'm going to move it above class and save and prettier is going to save
that and move that right here.
All right.
So right now, attribute before should even go before key.
That's really fine.
So we're just playing around here until we get something that works.
So right here, save that and that works.
And that makes sense to me because it makes logical sense for us to declare our temporary variable in
our V for loop before we use it as our unique key.
And as for why we want these items before class, the reason I'm guessing the View team wants that is
because these are view specific elements that are logical or iterative or have something to deal with
the logic of how we're constructing this ally.
So it makes sense that it's the first thing that we want our readers eyes to see before they get to
these HTML attributes like class.
Right.
But with that, we should get everything that we want if I move back to my browser.
We now see that we have successfully rendered the same menu items onto our screen.
Now keep in mind we do have a duplicate occurrence of teams, but that is to be expected.
That is because we are rendering our regular ally here with the hardcoded value of teams and we are
also iterating over our full list of menu items, which also includes teams.
The reason I kept this duplicate value in here is because we have a little bit of a distinction between
it and all of the other menu items, namely that all of the other menu items have a margin left nine
class on them, but this one doesn't.
And we're going to take a look at how we can resolve this difference using some tailwind helpers in
the very next lesson.